Analysis

In what concern alignement of depicted socio political themes with historical event and cultural shifts we will proceed by the following way. We will look for presence of significant z-score (higher or equal to 2). The time period that match to a serie of successive years or years close to yeach other with significant z-score for a certain theme are considered as time period or a time window where theme was adressed significantly higher compared to other time periods.This times windows are represented as red vertical rectangles. We look then for time periods of historical or political event that overlap or are located near our hight z score window in orde to suggest the influence of the political events on the frequency of a certain theme, or the effect of awarness of a certain problematic or thought that further lead to social and political event. The different periods that match to historical events are represented as vertical rectangles of different colors. We see the following results.

The theme of decolonization,apartheid and women rights are all signifcantly adressed during the inter war period. Their respective hight z-score time windows are [1919-1923], [1911-1915] and [1920,1924]. We nottice this theme are highly adressed in cinema far before the social and political events linked to these themes as beginning of decolonization, end of apartheid, start of civil and women right movements. A possible suggestion to understand this phenomenon could be the fact that interwar period was marked by particularly hard conditions people living in colonies and women which lead to an awarness of people and thus screenwriter for this theme.As cinema about these theme probably contributed to amplify this awarness and lead further to decolonization, anti apartheid and women right movements.

For the theme of civil right movement and racial segregation we can see a time windows [1960-1970] that is made of year with hight z score close to each other. Thus the theme of civil right and racial or sex segregation was particularly adressed during this time window. As this period overlap period of civil right and women right movement, we can sugest that probably this movement has inspired this theme in the world of cinema.

To conclude we can say that themes human right, racial or sex segregation undergo a significant increase of their frequency in a time period that is characterised by social and politcal event linked to this themes meaning that this themes reflects these events. For other themes as apartheid, decolonization or women right the time period during which they were particularly assessed occured far before the events linked to that theme. In these case we could hypothetise that movies don't reflect the events themselves but an awarness of peoples to problematic linked with this events and that probably lead to these event in a future. In these situations the cinema gives a premonitory overview of these events